Class 2 - Discussion 1 - 2

Question: What impact will Artificial Intelligence (AI) have on the field of project management?

Base on IBM is pushing more on the service strategy and applying the knowledege of the project to the future business application,
AI will become more flexable and involved into multi-types of industries. The impact will significantly impact on:
Decision-Making, which will make more precise on prediction analytics, and make a faster of stragety base on the real-time analysis.
The arrangement of the tasks in the project. It can make a more detailed plan on the time schedual to make easier on the management and make the project goes more smooth.
It can also impact on the Risk assessment. As it can base on the past data tp make a prediction, to result the consequences and even more make suggestions on the solutions to the risks if it is unovolvedable. So the resourses can be optimzed, so is the benifit of the project since it can used in different senario and make more precise result based on the data input.


Question: How important do you think the perks Google employees receive are for maintaining the culture of Google? How important do you think they will be after the COVID-19 pandemic and how do you see them changing?

In my opinion, those perks are the main key to improve the satisfaction for the employee and make work-life balance for a long-term productivity and creativity. With those perks, it can attract more high-talent employees to work in such environment. And with more and more high-talent employees come to woke, the culture of Google can be improved and well-maintained as those environment can only make improvement of the results no matter from work or life or company.
I think it become more important after the pandematic, the perks are transforming from on-site environment to WFH environment. A it become more safty and health focus, but it may leads to some on-site perks less revelant to remote workers. So for the remote workers, they need a new system of perks to increase their satisfaction toi maintain the culture of google, such as virtual wellness program, home-office setups,and remote group connections.
