###2024-05-09 Class1
Chapter 1

Project Management fundaments are universial.
Can be adapted to creat new services, organize events,refurbish aging operations, and so fotrh.
It is esttimated that each person is likely to experience three to four career changes, 
managing projects is a talent worthy of development.
Major in marketing, managaemnt information system(MIS)

What is a project:
A project is a tempoary endeavor indertaken to create a unique product, service, or result.

The major characteristics of a project ae as follow:
An established objective
A defined life span with a beginning and an end.
The invoment of everal departments and professionals.
Doing something that has never benn done before.(typically)
Specific time, cost, and performance requirement.


What a Project Not?
projects should not be confused woth everyday work. It is NOT routine, repetitive work.

Program VS Project
A program is a group of related projects designed to accomplish a common goal over an extened period of time.
Each project within a program has a project manager. The major diff is in SCALE and TIME SPAN.

Project management is the process of managing a group of ongoing, interdependent, related projects in a coordinated way to achieve strategic objectives.
Each project retains its own goals and scope, the project manager and team are also motivated by the higher program goal.
Program goals are closely related to board strategic organization goals.

***Project life cycle

Defining stage - Goals, specifications, tasks, responsibility
Specifications of the o\project ae defined, project objectives are established, teams are formed, majr responsibility are assigned.

Planning stage - Schedules, budgets, resources, risks, staffing
The level of effort increases.and plans are developed to determine what the project will entail, when it will be scheduled, whom it will be benifited,
what quality level shuld be maintainedand the budget will be.

Executing stage - Status report, changes, quality, forecasts
A mojor portion of the project work take place.
Physical - bridge, report, software program   AND mental. Physical product is produces.
Time, Cost, and specification measures are used for control.

Closong stage - Train customer, transfer doc, release resources, evaluation, lessons learned
Delivering the project product to the customer, redeploying product resources and conducting a post-project review.


The project manager
Plan, schedule, motivated, and control.
Unique: They manage tempoly, nonrepetitive activities to complete a fixed-life project.
Must work with a diverse troupe of characters to complete projects.
The direct link to customer and must arrange the tension between customer expactions and what is feasible and resonable.
Provide direction, coordination and interation to the project team, made up of part-time participations loyal to their functional department.
Work with a cader of outsiders- vendors, suppliers, and subcontractors

They are ultimately reponsed for performance. Ensure approriate trade-offs are made among the time, cost, and performance requirements of the project.
Often possess only rudimentary technical knowledge to make such decision.
Must orchestrate the completion of the project by including the right people, at the right time, to address the right issues and make the right decision.

Agile Project management(Agile PM)
Emerged out of fustration with using traditional project management processes to develop software
Employs an incremental, iterative process sometimes reffered to as "rollin wave", approach to complete projects.
The final project design/outcomes is not known in great detail and is continously developed through a series of incremental iterations(waves)
Iterations typically last from one to four weeks.
Goal of each iteration is to make tangible process such as define a key requirement.

Focus onactive collab between the project team and customer reprentatives, breaking projects into small functional peices and adapting to changing requirements.
Agile works best in small teams of 4 to 8.

***CURENT DRIVES of PM

Compression of the Product Life Cycle
Shortening of the product life cycle. Time-to-market for new products become increasingly important.
Reley on cross-functional project team

Knowledge explosion
PM had emerged as the key displine for achieving this task.

Triple Bottom Line(Planet, People, Profit)
Sustainability

Increase customer focus

Small projects represent big problem

***PM Today: A socio-Technical Approach
Socioculture - 
Leadership, Problem solving, Teamwork, Negotation,Poltics, Customer expectations

Technical - 
Scope,WBS, schedules, Resourec allocation, Baseline budgets, Status reports.


Summary:
A project is defined as a nonroutine, one-time effort limited by time, resources, and performance specifications designed to meet customer needs. 
One of the distinguishing chara is that it has both beginning and ending and typically consists of 4 phases"
defining, planning, excuting, and closing.
Require both social and technical skills.
PM have to plan and budget projects as wella orchestrate th contributions of others.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



###2024-05-16 Class2 
Organization Strategy, Struture, and Culture and Project

***Two main reasons project managers needs to understand their organization's mission and strategy:
1.So they can make appropriate decisions and adjustment.
2.So they can be effective project advocates.
    Show management how their project contributes to the firm’s mission to get their support.
    Explain to stakeholders why certain project objectives and priorities are critical to get buy-in
on contentious trade-off decisions.
    Explain why the project is important to motivate and empower the project team.

***The Strategic Management Process: An Overview

Strategic Management Defined
    • The process of assessing “what we are” and deciding and implementing “what we intend to
be and how we are going to get there.”
    • A continuous, iterative process to develop an integrated and coordinated long-term plan of
action.
    • Requires strong links among mission, goals, objectives, strategy, and implementation.

Two Major Dimensions of Strategic Management:
    Responds to changes in the external environment and allocates the firm’s scarce resources
to improve its competitive position.
    Internal responses to new programs to enhance the competitive position of the firm.

***Four Activities of the Strategic Management Process
    The sequence of activities of the strategic management process is:
1. Review and define the organizational mission
    The mission identifies “what we want to become.” Mission statements identify the scope of
the organization in terms of its product and service.
2. Analyze and formulate strategies
    Formulating strategy answers what needs to be done to reach objectives. This includes
determining and evaluating alternatives that support the organization’s objectives and
selecting the best alternative.
3. Set objectives to achieve strategies
    Objectives translate the organization strategy into specific, concrete, measurable terms.
Objectives answer where a firm is headed and when it is going to get there.
4. Implement strategies through projects
    Implementation answers how strategies will be realized, given available resources.


***Strategic Management Process

***Characteristics of Objectives
S - Specific - Be specific in targeting an object
M - Measurable - Establish a measurable indicator of the progress
A - Assignable - Make the objective assignable to one person for completion
R - Realistic - State what can realistically be done with available resources
T - Time related - State when the objective can be achieved, that is, duration


***The Need for a Project Priority System

Implementation of projects without a strong priority system linked to strategy creates problems.

Problem 1: The Implementation Gap
    The implementation gap is the lack of understanding and consensus of
organizational strategy among top and middle-level managers.

Problem 2: Organization Politics
    Project selection may be based less on facts and reasoning as on the
persuasiveness and power of people advocating projects.
    The term sacred cow is used to denote a project that a powerful, high-ranking
official is advocating.

Problem 3: Resource Conflicts and Multitasking
    A multi-project environment creates the problems of project interdependency and the need to share resources. Resource sharing leads to multitasking –
starting and stopping work on one task to go and work on another project, then returning to the work on the original task.

***Benefits of Project Portfolio Management

    Builds discipline into project selection process.
    Links project selection to strategic metrics.
    Prioritizes project proposals across a common set of criteria, instead of politics or emotion.
    Allocates resources to projects that align with strategic direction.
    Balances risk across all projects.
    Justifies killing projects that do not support organization strategy.
    Improves communication and supports agreement on project goals.

***Project Classification

Compliance (must do) projects
Strategic projects
Operational projects


***Phase Gate Model
    Phase Gate Model
    Is a series of gates that a project must pass through to be completed.
    Its purpose is to ensure that the organization is investing time and resources on worthwhile projects that contribute to its mission and strategy.
    Each gate is associated with a project phase and represents a decision point.
    A gate can lead to three possible outcomes: go (proceed), kill (cancel), or recycle (revise and resubmit).


***Phase Gate Process Diagram

Phase 1 - Idea
Gate 1
Phase 2 - Proposal
Gate 2
Phase 3 - Screening and selection
Gate 3
Phase 4 - Implementation plan
Gate 4
Phase 5 - Progress evaluation
Gate 5
Phase 6 - Closure
Gate 6


***Election Criteria

    Financial Criteria
        Payback
        Net present value (NPV)
    Nonfinancial Criteria
        Projects of strategic importance to the firm
    Two Multi-Criteria Selection Models
        Checklist Models
        Multi-Weighted Scoring Models

***Financial Criteria: The Payback Model P.18
Measures the time the project will take to recover the project investment.
    Desires shorter paybacks.
    Is the simplest and most widely used model.
    Emphasizes cash flows, a key factor in business.

Limitations of the Payback Method
    Ignores the time value of money.
    Assumes cash inflows for the investment period (and not beyond).
    Does not consider profitability.
        The Payback formula is
            𝑃𝑎𝑦𝑏𝑎𝑐𝑘 𝑝𝑒𝑟𝑖𝑜𝑑 𝑦𝑟𝑠 = 𝐸𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑑 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡 𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡/𝐴𝑛𝑛𝑢𝑎𝑙 𝑆𝑎𝑣𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑠



***Financial Criteria: Net Present Value (NPV) p.20
    Net Present Value (NPV)
    Uses management’s minimum desired rate of return (discount rate) to compute the present value of all net cash inflows.
    Prefers positive NPV to negative NPV.
    Desires higher positive NPVs.
    Is more realistic because it considers the time value of money, cash flows, and profitability.

***Nonfinancial Criteria
    Examples of strategic objectives are:
    To capture larger market share.
    To make it difficult for competitors to enter the market.
    To develop an enabler product, which will increase sales in more profitable products.
    To develop core technology that will be used in next-generation products.
    To reduce dependency on unreliable suppliers.
    To prevent government intervention and regulation.

***Two Multi-Criteria Selection Models p.23
    *Checklist Models
        Use a list of questions to review potential projects and determine to accept or reject.
        Allow greater flexibility in selecting different types of projects and are easily used across different divisions and locations.
        Fail to answer the relative importance or value of a potential project to the organization and does not allow for comparison with other potential projects.
    *Multi-Weighted Scoring Models
        Use several weighted selection criteria to evaluate project proposals.
        Include qualitative and/or quantitative criteria.
        Allow for comparison with other potential projects.

***Checklist Models: Sample Selection Questions Used in Practice p.24

Strategy/alignment - What specific organization strategy does this project align with?
Driver                  - What business problem does the project solve?
Sponsorship             - Who is the project sponsor?
Risk                    - What is the impact of not doing the project?
Risk                    - How risky is the project?
Benefits, value, ROI    - What is the value of the project to this organization?
Benefits, value, ROI    - When will the project show results?
Objectives              - What are the project deliverables?
Organization culture    - Is our organizational culture right for this type of project?
Resources               - Will internal resources be available for this project?
Schedule                - How long will this project take?
Finance/portfolio       - What is the estimated cost of the project?
Portfolio               - How does this project interact with current projects

***Multi-Weighted Scoring Models: Project Screening Matrix Criteria p.25

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

###2024-05-23 Class3
Defining the Project



***Five General Steps for Collecting Project Information
Step 1: Defining the Project Scope
Step 2: Establishing Project Priorities
Step 3: Creating the Work Breakdown Structure
Step 4: Integrating the WBS with the Organization
Step 5: Coding the WBS for the Information System

Process Breakdown Structure
Responsibility Matrices
Project Communication Plan


***STEP 1: Defining the Project Scope
    Project Scope Defined
        The end result or mission of your project: a product or service for your client/customer/TEAM.
        Defines the results to be achieved in specific, tangible, and measurable terms. 
    Purposes of the Project Scope Statement (WHY)
        To clearly define the deliverable(s) for the end user.
        To direct focus on the project purpose during the project for the customer and participants.
        To be published and used by the project owner and participants for planning and measuring project success.

Project Scope Checklist
    Project Objective: 
        What, When, How much, and Where
    project Scope Description: 
        The Characteristics of the product, service, outcoome of the project
    Justification:
        Why the project authorized?
        What is the problem or opportunity the project addressing
    Deliveriables:
        Expected, measurable outputs over the project
    Milestones:
        Significiant event in a project that can mark on the timeline.
    Technical requirements:
        Clarifies the deliverables or defines the performance specifications.
    Limits and exclusions: Things we will NOT do.
        MUST. Failure to do so leads to false expectations, extra resources and time.
    Acceptance criteria:
        Set of conditions that must be met BEFORE the deliverables are accepted.

Project Scope: Terms and Definitions
    Scope Statements
        A short, one- to two-page SUMMARY of key elements of the scope, followed by extended documentation of each element.
        Also referred to as Statements of work (SOWs).
    Project Charter
        Documentation that authorizes the project manager to initiate and lead the project.
        Often includes a brief scope description as well as such items as risk limits, business case, spending limits, and even team composition.
    Scope Creep
        The tendency for the project scope to expand over time, usually by changing requirements, specifications, and priorities.

            Five most common causes of the Scope Creep:
                Poor requirement analysis
                Not involving users early enough
                Underestimating project complexity
                Lack of change control
                Gold plating

Project Complexity p.16, EXAMPLES p.17
    a two-by-two matrix where degree of goal definition was mapped against degree of method definition.

    Type 1: Goals and Methos ae both well-defined.
        The goals and methods of achieving the project are well defined.
        ex: building a house/ website
    Type 2: ONLY goals are well-defined.
        The goals are well defined, but the methods are not.
        ex: Programming
    Type 3: ONLY methods are well-defined.
        The goals are not well defined, but the methods are.
        ex: Using AI but dont know where going.
    Type 4: None is well-defined.
        Neither the goals nor the methods are well defined.
        ex: Research project, Space stuff

FOUR sources of complexity:
    STRUCTURAL complexity 
        Stems from the difficulty in managing and keeping track of many different interconnected tasks and activities. 
            (e.g., large construction, engineering and defense projects)
    TECHNICAL complexity 
        Found in projects which have technical, or design problems associated with products that have never been produced before, or with techniques that are unknown or untried.
    DIRECTIONAL complexity 
        Originates from ambiguity related to multiple interpretations of goals and objectives and is found in projects with unshared goals, unclear meanings and hidden agendas.
    TEMPORAL complexity
        Found in projects characterized by shifting and unanticipated environmental impacts, unexpected legislative changes or the development of new technologies.



***STEP 2: Establishing Project Priorities
    Three major criteria (trade-offs) that a project manager must manage are: and they are the triple constraint triangle, inner is the quality.
        1. COST (budget)
        2. Time (schedule)
        3. Performance (scope)
    You CAN'T changeing one without effect others.

    Project manager can manage the project trade-offs by completing a priority matrix for the project and identifying which criterion is:
        Constrain: 
            original parameter is fixed.
        Enhance: 
            a criterion should be optimized.
        Accept: 
            a criterion is tolerable not to meet the original parameter.
    
    Project Priority Matrix for the Development of a New Wireless Router p.21

***STEP3: Creating the Work Breakdown Structure
    Creating the Work Breakdown Structure
        Is a hierarchical outline of the project with different levels of detail.
        Identifies the products and work elements involved in a project.
        Defines the relationship of the final deliverable (the project) to its sub-deliverables and their relationships to work packages.
        Serves as a framework for tracking cost and work performance.
        Is best for design and build projects that have tangible outcomes rather than process-oriented projects.

    Hierarchical Breakdown of the WBS p.23

    How WBS Helps the Project Manager? (没细讲)
        Assures project managers that all products and work elements are identified, to integrate the project with the current organization, and to establish a basis for control.
        Facilitates the evaluation of cost, time, and technical performance at all levels in the organization over the life of the project.
        Provides management with information appropriate to each organizational level.
        Helps project managers to plan, schedule, and budget the project.
        Helps in the development of the organization breakdown structure (OBS), which assigns project responsibilities to organization units and individuals.
        Provides the opportunity to 'roll up' (sum) the budget and actual costs of the smaller work packages into larger work elements.
        Defines communication channels and assists in understanding and coordinating the project.

    Work Breakdown Structure p.25 
    3-5 levels for the project (managable level)

    A Work Package
        Is the lowest level of the WBS.
        Is a short-duration task with a definite start and stop, consumes resources, and represents cost.
        Should not exceed 10 workdays or one reporting period.
        Should be as independent of other work packages of the project as possible.
        Is the basic unit used for planning, scheduling, and controlling the project.

    Each Work Package in the WBS: p.27
        Define Work - WHAT
        Identifies time to complete a work package - HOW LONG
        Identifies a time-phased budget to complete a work package - COST/BUDGET
        Identifies resources needed to complete a work package - HOW MUCH
        Identifies a single person responsible for units of work - WHO
        Identifies monitoring points for measuring progress - HOW WELL

***STEP 4: Integrating the WBS with the Organization (NOT ON AICP)

    Integration of WBS and OBS p.29

 ***Step 5: Coding the WBS for the Information System
    WBS Coding System
        Defines
            Levels and elements in the WBS
            Organization elements
            Work packages
            Budget and cost information
            Allows reports to be consolidated at any level in the structure.   

    WBS Dictionary
        Provides detailed information about each element in the WBS.

    PBS for Software Development Project p.33

    Responsibility Matrices (IN AICP)
        Is also called a linear responsibility chart.
        Summarizes the tasks to be accomplished and who is responsible for what on the project.
        Lists all the project activities and the participants responsible for each activity.
        Clarifies interfaces between units and individuals that require coordination.
        Provides a mean for all project participants to view their responsibilities and agree on their assignments.
        Clarifies the extent or type of authority exercised by each participant.


    Responsibility Assignment Matrix (RACI) p.36 NEED TO DO, example on p.37 (Everyone need to have 1 R and 1 A)
        The RACI matrix shows FOUR levels of responsibility, with each level abbreviated to the acronym RACI:
        R    A group is RESPONSIBLE for completing project work.
        A    Is for ACCOUNTABLE. This group can make project decisions, approve deliverables, and can delegate work.
        C    The group is CONSULTED about project decisions.
        I    Is for INFORM, which means that the group only requires task information.

                You dont want: p.38,39 will be in the first assignment
                                TOO much R in one person
                                EMPTY CELL, but not everyone need to fill out
                                BUY-IN
                                TOO many C, time is wasted
                                Over 1 A as someone needs to make the final SAY
                                Make sure all stakeholders is involved

    Project Communication Plan (IN AICP)
        Address the following questions:
            What information needs to be collected and when?
            Who will receive the information?
            What methods will be used to gather and store information?
            What are the limits, if any, on who has access to certain kinds of information?
            When will the information be communicated?
            How will it be communicated?

    Steps for Developing a Communication Plan
        Stakeholder analysis - identify the target groups. Start wide, then narrow it down.
        Information needs - status reports, deliverable issues, changes in scope, team status meetings, gating decisions, accepted request changes, action items, milestone reports.
        Sources of information - where does the information reside? Address the information clearly.
        Dissemination modes - hardcopy, e-mail, teleconferencing, SharePoint, Google Docs and a variety of database sharing programs.
        Responsibility and timing - determine who will send out the formation and when. TIMING MATTERS!

    Stakeholder Communications p.42
    
































